Log forwarding (#234)
mulesoft/docs-runtime-fabric: modules/ROOT/pages/runtime-fabric-logs.adoc

== View Logs from an Application

Ops Center shows a stream of logs generated by applications and services running on Runtime Fabric. This is useful when log forwarding is not configured.  

. From Ops Center, navigate to *Logging*.
. Select *Kubernetes*.
. Select the *Pods* tab.
. In the drop-down list adjacent to the search input area, select the ID of the environment where the application is deployed.
. Locate the pod name that starts with the name of your application.
. Select that pod name and then select *Logs*.

The *Logs* tab is displayed with a filter applied to your application.

[NOTE]
To view the latest logs, select *Refresh*.

=== Filters

There are two levels of filters for drilling down in the logs:

* The `_Containers_` filter filters by container name.
* The `_Pods_` filter filters by pod name.
+
This is useful for specifying application names that are followed by a wildcard (`%`).

== Forward Logs to External Services

Runtime Fabric supports log forwarding to:

* Anypoint Monitoring
* Third-party logging solutions using Fluent Bit log forwarding output plugins:

** Azure
** Elasticsearch
** Graylog Extended Log Format (GELF)
** Splunk

[NOTE]

> Only one Fluent Bit log forwarding output plugin is supported at any one time. However, you can forward logs to Anypoint Monitoring and one Fluent Bit log forwarding output plugin at the same time.

Reviewer: Suggestion: "Only *one* external log forwarding configuration is supported at any one time. However, you can forward logs to Anypoint log forwarding and external log forwarding service at the same time."

Author: Updated this.

```
[OUTPUT]
    Name        azure
    Match       *
    Customer_ID id
    Shared_Key  key
```

==== Elasticsearch Configuration Parameters

[%header%autowidth.spread,cols="a,a,a,a"]
.Elasticsearch Configuration Parameters
|===
| Key | Description | Required | Default Value
| Host | Specifies the IP address or hostname of the target Elasticsearch instance. | | 127.0.0.1
| Port | Specifies the TCP port of the target Elasticsearch instance. | | 9200
| Path | Elasticsearch accepts new data on HTTP query path `/_bulk`. But it is also possible to serve Elasticsearch behind a reverse proxy on a subpath. This option defines such a path on the Fluent Bit side. It adds a path prefix in the indexing HTTP POST URI. | | Empty string
| Buffer_Size | Specifies the buffer size used to read the response from the Elasticsearch HTTP service. This option is useful for debugging purposes where reading the full response is needed. Note that the size of the response grows depending on the number of records inserted. To specify an unlimited amount of memory, set this value to `False`. Otherwise, set the value according to the Unit Size specification. | | 4KB

> | Pipeline | Newer versions of Elasticsearch provide setup filters called pipelines. This option specifies which pipeline the database should use. However, to optimize performance, you should perform parsing and filtering on the Fluent Bit side and avoid pipelines. | | 

Reviewer 2: We remove `Pipeline`: 

> However, to optimize performance, you should perform parsing and filtering on the Fluent Bit side and avoid pipelines.

So i have also dropped this from API.

Author: `Pipeline` removed.

Example Fluent Bit output plugin configuration:
```
[OUTPUT]
    Name                    gelf
    Match                   kube.*
    Host                    <your-graylog-server>
    Port                    12201
    Mode                    tcp
    Gelf_Short_Message_Key  data
```

==== Splunk Configuration Parameters

[%header%autowidth.spread,cols="a,a,a,a"]
.Splunk Configuration Parameters
|===
| Key | Description | Required | Default Value
| Host | Specifies the IP address or hostname of the target Splunk service. | | 127.0.0.1
| Port | Specifies the TCP port of the target Splunk service. | | 8088
| Splunk_Token | Specifies the Authentication Token for the HTTP Event Collector interface. | |
| Splunk_Send_Raw | When enabled, specifies the record keys and values to be set in the top level of the map instead of nested under the `event` key. | | Off
| HTTP_User | Specifies an optional username for basic authentication on the HTTP Event Collector. | |
| HTTP_Passwd | Specifies a password for the user defined in `HTTP_User`. | |
|===

Example Fluent Bit output plugin configuration:
```
[OUTPUT]
    Name        splunk
    Match       *
    Host        127.0.0.1
    Port        8088

>     TLS         On

Reviewer 2: @sarjeet2013 Do we want to mention TLS property in the sample example ?

[WARNING]
Because log levels are specified when deploying a Mule application or an API proxy, you cannot change the log levels after deployment.

== View Logs from an Application

Ops Center shows a stream of logs generated by applications and services running on Runtime Fabric. This is useful when log forwarding is not configured.  

. From Ops Center, navigate to *Logging*.
. Select *Kubernetes*.
. Select the *Pods* tab.
. In the drop-down list adjacent to the search input area, select the ID of the environment where the application is deployed.
. Locate the pod name that starts with the name of your application.
. Select that pod name and then select *Logs*.

The *Logs* tab is displayed with a filter applied to your application.

[NOTE]
To view the latest logs, select *Refresh*.

=== Filters

There are two levels of filters for drilling down in the logs:

* The `_Containers_` filter filters by container name.
* The `_Pods_` filter filters by pod name.
+
This is useful for specifying application names that are followed by a wildcard (`%`).

== Forward Logs to External Services

Runtime Fabric supports log forwarding to:

* Anypoint Monitoring

> * Third-party logging solutions using Fluent Bit log forwarding output plugins:

Reviewer 3: @sundippatel @sarjeet2013 just checking - are we intentionally revealing that we’re using fluent bit?

** Azure Log Analytics
** Elasticsearch
** Graylog Extended Log Format (GELF)
** Splunk

[NOTE]
Only one external log forwarding configuration is supported at any one time. However, you can enable Anypoint log forwarding and an external log forwarding service at the same time.

=== Enable Log Forwarding

. Install and configure the applicable third-party logging solution. Verify that you have the required resources allocated. Refer to the documentation for your third-party logging solution for details. 
. From Anypoint Platform, select *Runtime Manager*.
. Select *Runtime Fabrics* in the sidebar navigation.
. Select the applicable Runtime Fabric based on the name used during installation.
. Select the *Log Forwarding* tab.
. Select the *Forward to Anypoint Monitoring (Requires Titanium)* checkbox if you have a Titanium subscription and you want to forward logs to Anypoint Monitoring.

> . Select the *Forward to other logging provider* checkbox to forward logs using a Fluent Bit log forwarding output plugin.

Reviewer 3: @yianL It seems our UI wording changed to `Forward application logs to an external service`? If so, let's update the doc accrodingly.

Reviewer 4: Yes, you're right.

Author: Updated this.

==== Splunk Configuration Parameters

[%header%autowidth.spread,cols="a,a,a,a"]
.Splunk Configuration Parameters
|===
| Key | Description | Required | Default Value
| Host | Specifies the IP address or hostname of the target Splunk service. | Yes | 127.0.0.1
| Port | Specifies the TCP port of the target Splunk service. | Yes | 8088
| Splunk_Token | Specifies the Authentication Token for the HTTP Event Collector interface. | Yes |
| HTTP_User | Specifies an optional username for basic authentication on the HTTP Event Collector. | No |
| HTTP_Passwd | Specifies a password for the user defined in `HTTP_User`. | No |
| Tls | Enables or disables TLS support. | No | Off
|===

Example Fluent Bit output plugin configuration:
```
[OUTPUT]
    Name         splunk
    Host         127.0.0.1
    Port         8088
    Splunk_Token xxxxxxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxxxxxxxxx
    Tls          On
```

=== Kubernetes Metadata

When forwarding logs to external services through Fluent Bit, additional metadata might be available in some providers. When performing searches, the user can leverage these metadata labels to help narrow down search results and focus on the logs only from containers that matters.

> [%header%autowidth.spread,cols="a,a,a"]

Reviewer 4: @paigehargrave I'm not sure how to make this table look better. Any suggestions?

| Command

| All Priorities
| List all messages.
| N/A

| ERROR
| List only error messages, such when an exception occurs.
| priority:ERROR

| FATAL
| List only fatal messages when an application fails.
| priority:FATAL

| INFO
| List informative messages.
| priority:INFO

| SYSTEM
| List messages about application and worker startup.
| priority:SYSTEM

| CONSOLE

> | List messages about console events such as setting the objectstore.

Reviewer 5: We have two entries for object store in our Term Presentation List:

Object Store (branded internal service that does not require version)

ObjectStore commercial object database

If you mean setting the syntax, reword to "setting the `objectstore` value" or "setting `objectstore`.

| priority:CONSOLE

| WARN
| List warning messages.
| priority:WARN

| DEBUG
| List debugging messages.
| priority:DEBUG
|===

Log levels are specified per Mule application or API proxy during deployment.

[WARNING]

> Because log levels are specified when deploying a Mule application or an API proxy, you cannot change the log levels after deployment.

Reviewer 5: Is this true? I thought I just read in one of Hanna's PRs that you could change parameter settings to an application in deployment, and then CloudHub redeploys with the new values with zero downtime.

Reviewer 5: Also, assuming you cannot change log levels after deployment, how does setting them AT deployment prevent them from being reset during deployment? I don't understand how the "Because" statement leads to "you cannot change."

== View Logs from an Application

Ops Center shows a stream of logs generated by applications and services running on Runtime Fabric. This is useful when log forwarding is not configured.  

. From Ops Center, navigate to *Logging*.
. Select *Kubernetes*.
. Select the *Pods* tab.

> . In the drop-down list adjacent to the search input area, select the environment ID where the application was deployed.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
. In the drop-down list adjacent to the search input area, select the ID of the environment where the application is deployed.
```

. Locate the pod name that starts with the name of your application.
. Select that pod name and then select *Logs*.

> The page should redirect to the *Logs* tab with a filter applied to your application.

Reviewer 5: Is this correct:
```suggestion
The *Logging* page redirects to the *Logs* tab, showing filtered information about your application.
```

[NOTE]

> To view the latest logs, select *Refresh*.

Reviewer 5: Will our audience not know how to use this, or be unlikely to think of it after performing this task?
Maybe this should be the final step of the task?

=== Filters

> There are two levels of filters for drilling down in the logs:

Reviewer 5: Active voice, avoiding "there are" per style reference"
```suggestion
You can drill down to more detailed log information by using one of the following two filters:
```

> * _Containers_ filter for filtering by container name.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
* The _containers_ filter filters by container name.
```

> * _Pods_ filter for filtering by pod name. This is useful for specifying application names that are followed by a wildcard (`%`).

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
* The _pods_ filter filters by pod name. +
This is useful for specifying application names that are followed by a wildcard (`%`).
```

== Forward Logs to External Services

Runtime Fabric supports log forwarding to:

* Anypoint Monitoring

> * Third party logging solutions using Fluent Bit log forwarding output plugins:

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
* Third-party logging solutions using Fluent Bit log forwarding output plugins:
```

** Azure
** Elasticsearch
** Graylog Extended Log Format (GELF)
** Splunk

[NOTE]

> Log data can be delivered to multiple destinations. However, only one Fluent Bit log forwarding output plugin is supported at any one time. Multiple log forwarding output configurations are not supported. For example, you can forward logs to Anypoint Monitoring and a third party logging solution, but not to two third party logging solutions.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Fluent Bit can deliver log data to multiple destinations, but only one Fluent Bit log forwarding output plugin is supported at a time. Multiple log forwarding output configurations are not supported. For example, you can forward logs to Anypoint Monitoring and a third-party logging solution, but not to two third-party logging solutions.
```

=== Enable Log Forwarding

> . Install and configure the applicable third party logging solution. Verify that you have allocated the required resources for the solution. Refer to the documentation for your third party logging solution for details. 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
. After verifying that you have the required resources to do so, Install and configure the applicable third-party logging solution.
```

. From Anypoint Platform, select *Runtime Manager*.

> . Select *Runtime Fabrics* in the sidebar navigation.

Reviewer 5: Just FYI, most writers call this something like "the menu in the left of the display." I like your version better. :-)

. Select the applicable Runtime Fabric based on the name used during installation.
. Select the *Log Forwarding* tab.
. Select the *Forward to Anypoint Monitoring (Requires Titanium)* checkbox if you have a Titanium subscription and you want to forward logs to Anypoint Monitoring.
. Select the *Forward to other logging provider* checkbox to forward logs using a Fluent Bit log forwarding output plugin.
.. In the *Connects to* drop-down list, select the applicable third party log forwarding solution.
.. Enter Fluent Bit configuration information for your third party logging solution:

*** <<Azure Log Analytics Configuration Parameters, Azure Log Analytics Configuration Parameters>>
*** <<Elasticsearch Configuration Parameters, Elasticsearch Configuration Parameters>>
*** <<GELF Configuration Parameters, GELF Configuration Parameters>>

> *** <<Splunk Configuration Parameters, Splunk Configuration Parameters>>

Reviewer 5: I suggest replacing all these details, based on the previous explanation of Fluent Bit options, with one step:

. In *Connects to*, select and configure your third-party logging and forwarding solution, including the type of filter.

> .. Select *Submit*.

Reviewer 5: Should be first-level bullet:
```suggestion
. Select *Submit*.
```

> .. To verify successful log forwarding, manually check the logs using the external log forwarding service.

Reviewer 5: ditto
```suggestion
. Verify success by manually checking the logs using the third-party log forwarding service.
```
If it is appropriate, it would be great to replace "third-party" with "external" throughout.

> ==== Azure Log Analytics Configuration Parameters

Reviewer 5: This is nesting topic information too deeply, which indicates the need for reorganizing the document topic flow.
Could we have a separate reference topic that includes these, titled something like "Fluent Bit Plugin Configuration Parameters"?

Reviewer 5: BREAK here

[%header%autowidth.spread,cols="a,a,a,a"]
.Azure Log Analytics Configuration Parameters
|===

> | Key | Description | Required | Default value

Reviewer 5: Table column heads use title caps:
```suggestion
| Key | Description | Required | Default Value
```

> | Customer_ID | Specifies the customer ID or WorkspaceID string. | Yes |

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
| Customer_ID | Specifies the customer ID or `WorkspaceID` string. | Yes |
```

> | Shared_Key | Specifies the primary or secondary Connected Sources client authentication key. | Yes |

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
| Shared_Key | Specifies the primary or secondary `Connected Sources` client authentication key. | Yes |
```

| Log_Type | Specifies the event type name. | No | `fluentbit`
|===

Example Fluent Bit output plugin configuration:
```
[OUTPUT]
    Name        azure
    Match       *
    Customer_ID id
    Shared_Key  key
```

==== Elasticsearch Configuration Parameters

[%header%autowidth.spread,cols="a,a,a,a"]
.Elasticsearch Configuration Parameters
|===

> | Key | Description | Required | Default value

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
| Key | Description | Required | Default Value
```

> | Host | Specifies the IP address or hostname of the target Elasticsearch instance | | 127.0.0.1

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
| Host | Specifies the IP address or hostname of the target Elasticsearch instance. | | 127.0.0.1
```

> | Port | Specifies the TCP port of the target Elasticsearch instance | | 9200

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
| Port | Specifies the TCP port of the target Elasticsearch instance. | | 9200
```

> | Path | Elasticsearch accepts new data on HTTP query path "/_bulk". But it is also possible to serve Elasticsearch behind a reverse proxy on a subpath. This option defines such a path on the fluent-bit side. It adds a path prefix in the indexing HTTP POST URI. | | Empty string

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
| Path | Elasticsearch accepts new data on HTTP query path `/_bulk`. But it is also possible to serve Elasticsearch behind a reverse proxy on a subpath. This option defines such a path on the Fluent-Bit side. It adds a path prefix in the indexing HTTP POST URI. | | Empty string
```

> | Buffer_Size | Specifies the buffer size used to read the response from the Elasticsearch HTTP service. This option is useful for debugging purposes where is required to read full responses, note that response size grows depending of the number of records inserted. To set an unlimited amount of memory set this value to False, otherwise the value must be according to the Unit Size specification. | | 4KB

Reviewer 5: The second sentence does not make grammatical sense.

Reviewer 5: "To set an unlimited amount of memory set this value to False, otherwise the value must be according to the Unit Size specification."    >     
"To set an unlimited amount of memory, set this value to `False`. Otherwise, set the value according to the Unit Size specification.

> | Pipeline | Newer versions of Elasticsearch allow setup filters called pipelines. This option specifies which pipeline the database should use. For performance reasons, is strongly recommended to perform parsing and filtering on Fluent Bit side and avoid pipelines. | | 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
| Pipeline | Newer versions of Elasticsearch enable you to use setup filters called _pipelines_. This option specifies which pipeline the database should use. For best performance reasons, perform parsing and filtering on the Fluent Bit side and avoid pipelines. | | 
```

> | HTTP_User | Specifies an optional username credential for Elastic X-Pack access. | | 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
| HTTP_User | Specifies an optional username credential for X-Pack Elastic Stack access. | | 
```
I looked this up; please confirm name.

| HTTP_Passwd | Specifies a password for the user defined in `HTTP_User`. | | 
| Index | Specifies the index name. | | fluentbit
| Type | Specifies the type name. | | flb_type

> | Logstash_Format | Enables Logstash format compatibility. This option takes a boolean value: True/False, On/Off

Reviewer 5: Please verify the presentation of "boolean" here with our Term Presentation List.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
| Logstash_Format | Enables Logstash format compatibility. This option takes a boolean value: `True/False`, `On/Off`, or
```

> Off | |

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
`Off` | |
```

> | Logstash_Prefix | When Logstash_Format is enabled, the `Index` name is composed of a prefix and the date, for example: If Logstash_Prefix is set to 'mydata', your index becomes `mydata-YYYY.MM.DD`. The last string appended belongs to the date when the data is being generated. | | logstash

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
| Logstash_Prefix | When Logstash_Format is enabled, the `Index` name is composed of a prefix and the date. For example, if Logstash_Prefix is set to 'mydata', your index becomes `mydata-YYYY.MM.DD`. The last string appended belongs to the date when the data is generated. | | logstash
```

Reviewer 5: Some of these descriptions read as if they were written by Dev.
If so, please be sure to rewrite Dev-authored text before sending for edit review in the future.

> | Logstash_DateFormat | Specifies the time format (based on strftime) that is used to generate the second part of the `Index` name. | | %Y.%m.%d

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
| Logstash_DateFormat | Specifies the time format (based on `strftime`) used to generate the second part of the `Index` name. | | %Y.%m.%d
```

> | Time_Key | When Logstash_Format is enabled, each record is assigned a new timestamp field. `The Time_Key` property defines the name of that field. | | @timestamp

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
| Time_Key | When `Logstash_Format` is enabled, each record is assigned a new timestamp field. The `Time_Key` property defines the name of that field. | | @timestamp
```

> | Time_Key_Format | When Logstash_Format is enabled, this property defines the format of the timestamp. | | %Y-%m-%dT%H:%M:%S

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
| Time_Key_Format | When `Logstash_Format` is enabled, this property defines the format of the timestamp. | | %Y-%m-%dT%H:%M:%S
```

> | Include_Tag_Key | When enabled, appends the Tag name to the record. | | Off

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
| Include_Tag_Key | When enabled, appends the `Tag` name to the record. | | Off
```

| Tag_Key | When `Include_Tag_Key` is enabled, this property defines the key name for the tag. | | _flb-key

> | Generate_ID | When enabled, generates the _id for outgoing records. This prevents duplicate records when retrying ES. | | Off

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
| Generate_ID | When enabled, generates the `_id` value for outgoing records. This prevents duplicate records when retrying ES. | | Off
```
What is ES?

> | Replace_Dots | When enabled, replaces field name dots with an underscore, which is required by Elasticsearch 2.0-2.3. | | Off

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
| Replace_Dots | When enabled, replaces field name dots (`.`) with an underscore ('_'), which is required by Elasticsearch 2.0 through 2.3. | | Off
```
How many dots?

> | Trace_Output | When enabled, prints the elasticsearch API calls to stdout (for diag only). | | Off

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
| Trace_Output | When enabled, prints the Elasticsearch API calls to `stdout` (for diagnostic purposes only). | | Off
```

> | Trace_Error | When enabled, prints the elasticsearch API calls to stdout when elasticsearch returns an error. | | Off

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
| Trace_Error | When enabled, prints the Elasticsearch API calls to `stdout` when Elasticsearch returns an error. | | Off
```

> | Current_Time_Index | Specifies using the current time for index generation instead of the message record. | | Off

Reviewer 5: Is "the message record" a time used for index generation? Clarify; ungrammatical.

| Logstash_Prefix_Key | Prefixes keys with this string. | |
|===

Example Fluent Bit output plugin configuration:
```
[OUTPUT]
    Name  es
    Match *
    Host  192.168.2.3
    Port  9200
    Index my_index
    Type  my_type
```

==== GELF Configuration Parameters

[%header%autowidth.spread,cols="a,a,a,a"]

> .GELF Configuration Parameters. There are some mandatory and optional fields which are used by Graylog in GELF format. These fields are determined with Gelf\*_Key_ key in this plugin.???

Reviewer 5: which > that

Also, embedded QUESTION should be removed.

Reviewer 5: Please reread the remaining plugin parameter descriptions and fix the grammar and formatting as edited in the previous tables. The descriptions do not follow our style, which leads me to believe they were pasted in from elsewhere without review and sent to me to fix. Writers must edit dev doc before submitting for a formal edit.

| Gelf_Short_Message_Key | Specifies a short descriptive message (MUST be set in GELF). | | short_message
| Gelf_Timestamp_Key | Specifies your log timestamp (SHOULD be set in GELF). | | timestamp
| Gelf_Host_Key | Specifies the key for which the value is used as the name of the host, source, or application that sent the message. (MUST be set in GELF). | | host
| Gelf_Full_Message_Key | Specifies the key to use as the long message that can contain a backtrace. (Optional in GELF) | |full_message
| Gelf_Level_Key | Specifies the key to be used as the log level. Its value must be in standard syslog levels (between 0 and 7). | (Optional in GELF) | level
| Packet_Size | Specifies the size of packets to be sent if the transport protocol is udp. | | 1420
| Compress | Specifies compression of your UDP packets if the transport protocol is udp. | | true
|===

Example Fluent Bit output plugin configuration:
```
[OUTPUT]
    Name                    gelf
    Match                   kube.*
    Host                    <your-graylog-server>
    Port                    12201
    Mode                    tcp
    Gelf_Short_Message_Key  data
```

> ==== Splunk Configuration Parameters

Reviewer 5: ditto reread and fix before sending for edit review

[%header%autowidth.spread,cols="a,a,a,a"]
.Splunk Configuration Parameters
|===
| Key | Description | Required | Default value
| Host | Specifies the IP address or hostname of the target Splunk service. | | 127.0.0.1
| Port | Specifies the TCP port of the target Splunk service. | | 8088
| Splunk_Token | Specifies the Authentication Token for the HTTP Event Collector interface. | |
| Splunk_Send_Raw | When enabled, specifies the record keys and values to be set in the top level of the map instead of under the `event` key. | | Off
| HTTP_User | Specifies an optional username for Basic Authentication on HEC. | |
| HTTP_Passwd | Specifies a password for the user defined in `HTTP_User`. | |
|===

Example Fluent Bit output plugin configuration:
```
[OUTPUT]
    Name        splunk
    Match       *
    Host        127.0.0.1
    Port        8088
    TLS         On
    TLS.Verify  Off
    Message_Key my_key
```

== Disable Log Forwarding for Specific Pods

> By default, Fluent Bit log forwarding is enabled on all pods (MuleApplication pods, Runtime Fabric pods and Infrastructure pods). 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
By default, Fluent Bit log forwarding is enabled on all pods (Mule application pods, Runtime Fabric pods, and infrastructure pods). 
```

> To disable log forwarding for specific pods, you can annotate it with `fluentbit.io/exclude`, as shown in the following example:

Reviewer 5: To what does "it" refer: "log forwarding" or "specific pods"? If the latter, fix pronoun agreement.

```
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: apache-logs
  labels:
    app: apache-logs
  annotations:
    fluentbit.io/exclude: "true"
spec:
  containers:
  - name: apache
  ...
```

> OR, you can use the following kubectl command to annotate it on pods in a specific namespace:

Reviewer 5: This is not a proper transition, an ALLCAP  "OR, "
Again, is this written by you or the dev?
ditto what does "it" refer to?
```suggestion
Alternatively, you can use the following `kubectl` command to annotate it on pods in a specific namespace:
```

```
kubectl annotate pod <pod-name> -n <namespace> fluentbit.io/exclude="true"
```

> Note that the annotation value is boolean and must be in quotation marks. 

Reviewer 5: ditto re. presentation of boolean/Boolean

> == Disable Anypoint Monitoring or Fluent Bit Log Forwarding:

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
== Disable Anypoint Monitoring or Fluent Bit Log Forwarding
```

. Navigate to Runtime Manager and select *Applications*.
. Select the application for which you want to disable log forwarding.
. Select the *Logs* tab.
. Deselect the applicable log forwarding options:
+
** *Forward logs to Anypoint Monitoring* 
** *Forward logs to <third party service>*

[WARNING]

> Disabling log forwarding options deletes all the applicable configuration information from Runtime Fabric.

Reviewer 5: Does this refer to deleting the two listed here or to deleting all? Clarify. 
Is this something your audience wants to do, to delete all the config?

== Forward Logs to Other External Services

> Anypoint Runtime Fabric enables you to forward application and cluster logs to external logging solutions other than the third party solutions supported using Fluent Bit log forwarding output plugins. The log forwarder built into Runtime Fabric enables you to send log data to an `rsyslog` server over TCP or UDP.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Anypoint Runtime Fabric also enables you to forward application and cluster logs to an `rsyslog` server over TCP or UDP so that you can use an external central location for viewing, retention, and receiving alerts. Logging solutions such as Splunk or Logstash provide methods to receive log data from `rsyslog` clients.
```

> Log data from Anypoint Runtime Fabric components and Mule applications can be forwarded to an external logging solution for viewing, retention and alerting in a centralized destination. An `rsyslog` client service is included in Runtime Fabric, and provides log forwarding transmission via TCP or UDP to an `rsyslog` server. Logging solutions such as Splunk or Logstash provide methods to receive log data from `rsyslog` clients.

Reviewer 5: Replace, per above, to reduce wordiness.

> Anypoint Runtime Fabric provides dashboards and alerts on critical metrics when performance or availability are compromised. These can be viewed and adjusted using Ops Center. An SMTP server is required to receive alerts.

Reviewer 5: How is this related to forwarding logs to an external central location, which is the focus of this topic?

Reviewer 5: When you reword, be sure to avoid passive voice.

| syslog_sd_key | Specifies the key to syslog structured data, which can be set multiple times. This must be a map. | |
|===

Example Fluent Bit output plugin configuration:
```
[OUTPUT]
	Name   syslog
	Match  *

	Host   127.0.0.1
	Port   514
	Mode   tcp

	Syslog_Format        rfc5424
	Syslog_Severity_key  serverity
	Syslog_Facility_key  factility
	Syslog_Hostname_key  hostname
	Syslog_Appname_key   app
	Syslog_Procid_key    pid
	Syslog_Message_key   log
	Syslog_sd_key        info=]1
	Syslog_sd_key        info2
```

== Disable Log Forwarding for Specific Pods

By default, Fluent Bit log forwarding is enabled on all pods (MuleApplication pods, Runtime Fabric pods and Infrastructure pods). 

To disable log forwarding for specific pods, you can annotate it with `fluentbit.io/exclude`, as shown in the following example:
```
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: apache-logs
  labels:
    app: apache-logs
  annotations:
    fluentbit.io/exclude: "true"
spec:
  containers:
  - name: apache
  ...
```
OR, you can use the following kubectl command to annotate it on pods in a specific namespace:
```
kubectl annotate pod <pod-name> -n <namespace> fluentbit.io/exclude="true"
```

> Note that the annotation value is boolean and must be in quotation marks. 

Reviewer: FYI @hegderohit89. Let's remove this since we don't want customer to edit the pod configuration or run kubectl commands. 
Instead, we can document that the Application level configuration is not supported yet, and will be provided in future version. Once provided, A user can enable/disable application level log forwarding for the external log forwarding service.

Author: Removed this

gravity resource create log-forwarder.yaml
----

> Your logs should now be forwarded to your external logging solution.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Your logs are forwarded to your external logging solution.
```
